[Music]
have you ever wondered what it was like
to travel on the most famous steamship
in history I'm talking about the Titanic
of course oh by the way the other day I
saw a documentary of how the steel in
that ship was put together it was
riveting oh you heard that one already
hmm
too bad well we all know that it came to
a sad end but the good news is that soon
you'll be able to take a trip on the
greatest liner of all time without
risking your life for over a century the
history of the Titanic has fascinated
people all over the planet
lucky for us businessmen Clive Palmer
one of the richest men in Australia is a
fan himself in 2012 he announced his
project to build a replica of the
legendary ship that was exactly 100
years after the real Titanic went down
in the North Atlantic
Palmer wanted to recreate the whole
experience so much that he named his
cruise company Blue Star Line it's a nod
to the White Star Line which owned the
original Titanic and if you still doubt
the seriousness of his intentions let me
tell you that this man forked over five
hundred million dollars to make his
dream come true
and seven years later the constructions
finally coming to an end hopefully all
that money and time were well spent
designers and historians made sure that
the interiors were as close to the
original liner as possible after all
we're lucky to have loads of photos of
the first Titanic so it won't be too
hard to compare as you may know the
world's wealthiest people hurry to book
a ticket to travel on Titanic dozens of
businessmen and aristocrats were among
the first-class passengers there and
they required special treatment well
they sure got it since the ship was
known not only for its enormous size but
also for its luxurious amenities just
imagine a library a gymnasium and even
Turkish baths were on board this
glorious ship over 100 year
ago for $1 you could visit cold or hot
chambers and steam rooms all while the
ship was gliding across the ocean there
is also a swimming pool filled with
heated saltwater it was pretty small but
hey it was only the second ship to have
a pool at the time so it must have been
impressive enough anyway
the first was set up a year earlier on
RMS Olympic Titanic sistership all these
rooms will be replicated in Titanic -
like his predecessor it'll feature a
squash court in a gym and be furnished
with the newest fitness equipment at
least by century-old standards back in
1912 it had rowing machines exercise
bikes and electric horses the passengers
could train on their own or with the
help of an instructor so not much has
changed since then apart from the
clothes of course have you ever worked
out in a long dress or suit hmm I doubt
it animals enjoy being well taken care
of on board - especially 12 pooches who
had their own kennel their owners
actually plan to put on a dog show
during the trip but unfortunately the
iceberg got in the way one of the most
lavish spaces of the Titanic was the
lounge the walls in there were trimmed
with mother-of-pearl and mahogany wood
visitors could also warm up near the
marble fireplace which was the only
functioning fireplace in the whole ship
there was one small catch though the
room was for men only maybe in this case
there's nothing wrong with upgrading
some old rules right remember that
beautiful wooden staircase where Rose
met Jack in the finale of James
Cameron's film it was said it matched
the famous Grand stairway that connected
the decks in the original ship Titanic
to will have the same set of stairs
topped by a glass dome brightening up
the steps with natural light in the
daytime I guess now we know what will be
the most Instagram place of the new van
so and let's not forget the extravagant
dining room of the first class it was 92
feet wide and 114 feet long with so much
space it could accommodate more than 500
people at once it literally was the
largest room on Titanic and one of the
finest - it was painted white and the
portholes were hidden behind lead glass
windows which created the illusion of an
elegant onshore restaurant this decor
combined with delicious food can
definitely turn a simple dinner into the
evening of a lifetime that's all well
and good but after a couple of meals one
can get tired of dining in the same room
no matter how fancy for this occasion
Titanic had a cafe Parisian
that resembled a French sidewalk cafe
and a veranda cafe with a great view of
the Atlantic who knows maybe this time
they'll attract younger passengers just
like back then the private room layout
on Titanic 2 will be authentic to the
ship we'll serve three categories of
passengers so there will be three types
of cabins accordingly the first class
will enjoy more spacious suites with
large canopy beds tables and even their
own fireplaces for decoration
the second class ones will be less
luxurious but quite cozy they'll have
bunk beds or sofas embedded right in the
walls and the third class cabins will
also be just like a century ago they
were the smallest and the most humble
ones and often had four cots in a row
but that was still more than decent for
that time except for maybe one thing
people who bought third-class tickets
had only two bathtubs for all 700 of
them the creators of Titanic -
considered leaving it how it was to make
the modern third-class trip an adventure
but you know let's just hope they change
their minds about that there would be
quite a lineup after all they had no
problem with adjusting the ship to the
present day safety standards the
original liner had over 3,300 people
aboard and only 20 lifeboats capable of
rest
chewing three times less than that
Titanic 2 will accommodate around 2,400
passengers and 900 crew members as well
but the number of rafts and life jackets
will be increased significantly in case
of an emergency every person on the ship
can be saved that's not the only thing
that changed for good the new Titanic
will have a stronger welded hull rather
than a riveted one apparently this part
of the boat was damaged when it crashed
into the iceberg allowing water to gush
in it'll also switch to the more
efficient diesel engine back in the day
the ship was powered by steam which was
produced in huge boilers Titanic too
will have an extra deck raising the
total number to 10
rather than 9 as it was in 1912 the new
platform will be used for keeping the
right amount of lifeboats
there will be more staircases added so
that the passengers and the crew can
reach the other floors faster if
something happens and of course the ship
will feature the latest radar and
satellite systems to make it seaworthy
in a truly modern sense try to imagine
people wearing shorts and miniskirts in
the old-fashioned rooms of Titanic seems
kind of weird huh to allow the
passengers to experience the bygone era
to the max the crew will give out big
dresses and tuxedos they even thought
about having no internet or TV on board
tickets aren't on sale yet so I can't
give you an approximate price of the
trip right now but even without Wi-Fi or
private baths the journey on Titanic 2
will definitely cost more than your
average cruise its maiden voyage is
scheduled for 2022 the ship will travel
from Dubai to the English city of
Southampton and then to New York
following the route of its legendary
ancestor if all goes as planned later it
will host cruises around the world and
what historical period would you like to
travel to let me know down in the
comments hey if you learn something new
today then give this video a like and
share it with a friend
but don't go jumping into your lifeboat
just yet we have
[Music]